From - Thu Dec 10 14:33:47 2009
X-Mozilla-Status: 0001
X-Mozilla-Status2: 00000000
Delivered-To: jpprost@gmail.com
Received: by 10.141.115.10 with SMTP id s10cs48808rvm;
        Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:32:38 -0700 (PDT)
Received: by 10.67.115.5 with SMTP id s5mr2994234ugm.63.1224621144385;
        Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:32:24 -0700 (PDT)
Return-Path: <owner-linguist@listserv.linguistlist.org>
Received: from listserv.linguistlist.org (listserv.linguistlist.org [164.76.102.107])
        by mx.google.com with ESMTP id l20si838863uga.16.2008.10.21.13.31.28;
        Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:32:24 -0700 (PDT)
Received-SPF: pass (google.com: best guess record for domain of owner-linguist@listserv.linguistlist.org designates 164.76.102.107 as permitted sender) client-ip=164.76.102.107;
Authentication-Results: mx.google.com; spf=pass (google.com: best guess record for domain of owner-linguist@listserv.linguistlist.org designates 164.76.102.107 as permitted sender) smtp.mail=owner-linguist@listserv.linguistlist.org
Received: from listserv (listserv [164.76.102.107])
	by listserv.linguistlist.org (8.13.8/8.13.8) with ESMTP id m9LKSmei009170;
	Tue, 21 Oct 2008 16:31:25 -0400 (EDT)
Received: by LISTSERV.LINGUISTLIST.ORG (LISTSERV-TCP/IP release 14.4) with
          spool id 4742540 for LINGUIST@LISTSERV.LINGUISTLIST.ORG; Tue, 21 Oct
          2008 16:30:47 -0400
Approved-By: linguist@LINGUISTLIST.ORG
Received: from linguistlist.org (linguistlist.org [164.76.102.53]) by
          listserv.linguistlist.org (8.13.8/8.13.8) with ESMTP id
          m9LHImQo013283 for <linguist@listserv.linguistlist.org>; Tue, 21 Oct
          2008 13:18:48 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from linguistlist.org (linguistlist.org [164.76.102.53]) by
          linguistlist.org (8.13.8/8.13.8) with ESMTP id m9LHICKK026197; Tue,
          21 Oct 2008 13:18:43 -0400 (EDT)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
X-Mailer: ColdFusion MX Application Server
X-Greylist: Sender IP whitelisted, not delayed by milter-greylist-3.0 (listserv.linguistlist.org [164.76.102.107]); Tue, 21 Oct 2008 16:31:26 -0400 (EDT)
X-Greylist: Sender IP whitelisted,
            not delayed by milter-greylist-3.0 (listserv.linguistlist.org
            [164.76.102.107]); Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:18:48 -0400 (EDT)
X-Greylist: Sender IP whitelisted,
            not delayed by milter-greylist-3.0 (linguistlist.org [0.0.0.0]);
            Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:18:43 -0400 (EDT)
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by
                      listserv.linguistlist.org id m9LHInQo013318
Message-ID:  <6610378.1224609523587.JavaMail.nobody@linguistlist.org>
Date:         Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:18:43 -0400
Reply-To: linguist@LINGUISTLIST.ORG
Sender: The LINGUIST Discussion List <LINGUIST@LISTSERV.LINGUISTLIST.ORG>
From: LINGUIST Network <linguist@LINGUISTLIST.ORG>
Subject: 19.3198, Calls: General Ling/Sweden; Ling & Literature/Pakistan
Comments: To: linglike@linguistlist.org
To: LINGUIST@LISTSERV.LINGUISTLIST.ORG
Precedence: list

LINGUIST List: Vol-19-3198. Tue Oct 21 2008. ISSN: 1068 - 4875.

Subject: 19.3198, Calls: General Ling/Sweden; Ling & Literature/Pakistan

Moderators: Anthony Aristar, Eastern Michigan U <aristar@linguistlist.org>
            Helen Aristar-Dry, Eastern Michigan U <hdry@linguistlist.org>
 
Reviews: Randall Eggert, U of Utah  
         <reviews@linguistlist.org> 

Homepage: http://linguistlist.org/

The LINGUIST List is funded by Eastern Michigan University, 
and donations from subscribers and publishers.

Editor for this issue: Kate Wu <kate@linguistlist.org>
================================================================  

LINGUIST is pleased to announce the launch of an exciting new feature:  Easy Abstracts! Easy Abs is a free abstract submission and review facility designed to help conference organizers and reviewers accept and process abstracts online.  Just go to: http://www.linguistlist.org/confcustom, and begin your conference customization process today! With Easy Abstracts, submission and review will be as easy as 1-2-3!

===========================Directory==============================  

1)
Date: 21-Oct-2008
From: Anna Vogel < anna.vogel@nordiska.su.se >
Subject: Swedish Association for Language and Cognition 

2)
Date: 20-Oct-2008
From: Anjum Saleemi < saleemi@ncnu.edu.tw >
Subject: Reshaping the Mould: Literature and Language Studies

 

	
-------------------------Message 1 ---------------------------------- 
Date: Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:12:43
From: Anna Vogel [anna.vogel@nordiska.su.se]
Subject: Swedish Association for Language and Cognition

E-mail this message to a friend:
http://linguistlist.org/issues/emailmessage/verification.cfm?iss=19-3198.html&submissionid=194267&topicid=3&msgnumber=1
  

Full Title: Swedish Association for Language and Cognition 
Short Title: SALC conference 2009 

Date: 10-Jun-2009 - 12-Jun-2009
Location: Stockholm, Sweden 
Contact Person: Anna Vogel
Meeting Email: SALC2009@english.su.se

Linguistic Field(s): General Linguistics 

Call Deadline: 15-Dec-2008 

Meeting Description:

In the second SALC conference, SALC-2009, we hope to bring together folks from
within all areas of language and cognition studies in Sweden and internationally. 

Call for Papers

Second Conference of the Swedish Association for Language and Cognition
SALC
June 10-12, 2009

Arranged by the Departments of English, 
Scandinavian Languages, and General Linguistics
Stockholm University

Second Circular 
We are pleased to announce the second SALC conference, SALC-2009, where we hope
to bring together researchers from within all areas of language and cognition
studies in Sweden and internationally. We welcome discussions on a wide variety
of issues within the general area of language and cognition, and with particular
focus on the areas of cognitive linguistic approaches to language acquisition
and the contributions of psycholinguistics to linguistic theory.

We are very pleased to announce our plenary speakers for the conference: 
-- Elizabeth C. Traugott, Professor Emeritus of Linguistics and English at
Stanford University 
-- Maria Koptjevskaja-Tamm, Professor of Comparative Linguistics at Stockholm
University.
-- Niclas Abrahamsson, Associate Professor at the Centre for Research on
Bilingualism at Stockholm University.
-- Daniel Casasanto, Postdoctoral Researcher, Senior Scientific Staff at Max
Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen.

Call for papers
We invite the submission of abstracts for oral or poster presentations for the
"Second Conference of the Swedish Association for Language and Cognition (SALC)
/ Svenska Sällskapet för Språk och Kognition (SSSK)" to be held at Stockholm
University between June 10th and 12th, 2009. Presentations should involve
research based on structures and processes of general cognition (e.g.
perception, memory and reasoning) and social cognition (e.g. joint attention and
imitation), and as affecting such structures and processes. The conference, as
SALC in general, is intended to be a forum for the exchange of ideas between
disciplines, fields of study and theoretical frameworks. Topics include, but are
not limited to: 
-psycholinguistic  approaches to language and cognition
-language acquisition/use and cognition
-language structure and cognition 
-language and cognitive development and evolution
-language change and cognition 
-language and gesture 
-language and consciousness 
-linguistic typology and cognition
-linguistic relativity

The deadline for abstract submission is December 15, 2008. Please send two
copies of an abstract of about 400 words (excluding references) to
SALC2009@english.su.se , with your name and affiliation written under the title
in one copy; one copy must remain anonymous. Presentations should last 20
minutes with 5 minutes for questions. After the process of peer-revision, e-mail
notifications will be sent out by March 1, 2009.

Conference Fees: 
-50 Euros for faculty SALC members,
-70 Euros for faculty non-members
-40 Euros for student SALC members
-50 Euros for student non-members
 
The annual SALC membership is 15 Euros for faculty and 10 Euros for students.
There will be a conference dinner for a cost of 40 Euros. Registration and
payments can be made on-line at      http://www.salc-sssk.org/salc09/

Theme sessions. As part of SALC-2009 there will be four theme sessions described
in Themes (at the bottom of this message). If you are interested in submitting a
paper to one of the theme sessions, please mark your abstract clearly with your
intended theme session. The deadline for abstract submission is December 15,
2008. Please send two copies of an abstract of about 400 words (excluding
references) to SALC2009@english.su.se , with your name and affiliation written
under the title in one copy; one copy must remain anonymous. All submissions,
both general and for theme sessions, will be peer-reviewed, after which e-mail
notifications will be sent out by March 1, 2009.
Plenary speakers

Elizabeth C. Traugott - Professor Emeritus of Linguistics and English at
Stanford University. She has done research in historical syntax, semantics, and
pragmatics, lexicalization, socio-historical linguistics, and linguistics and
literature. Her current research focuses on ways to bring the theories of
grammaticalization and Construction Grammar to bear on accounts of micro-changes.

Daniel Casasanto - Postdoctoral Researcher, Senior Scientific Staff at Max
Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen. His research integrates
methods from cognitive psychology, developmental psychology, linguistics, and
cognitive neuroscience to explore connections between talking, thinking,
perceiving, and acting.

Maria Koptjevskaja Tamm - Professor in General Linguistics 
at Department of Linguistics, Stockholm University. Her interests include:
typology, lexical typology, nominal juxtaposition, the origin, meaning(s) and
grammatical properties of kin and temperature terms. Maria's current research
focuses on areal phenomena in the languages spoken around the Baltic Sea and
also recurrent semantic shifts and form/meaning correlations in the core
vocabulary of human languages.

Niclas Abrahamsson - Associate Professor at the Centre for Research on
Bilingualism Stockholm University. His research interests include first and
second language acquisition, cognitive, psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic
aspects of language acquisition and language use and maturational constraints
and the critical period, language aptitude, first language attrition and also
second language phonology and phonetics.

Theme Sessions at the Second International Conference of the Swedish Association
for Language and Cognition (SALC), Stockholm June 10-12 2009.

1. Interfaces of Language and Vision. Coordinator: Pirita Pyykkönen, Department
of Psychology, University of Turku, Finland.
2. Cognition and second Language Use. Coordinator: Alan Mcmillion, English
Language department, Stockholm University, Sweden.
3. Language, Consciousness and Semiosis. Coordinators: Jordan Zlatev, Centre for
Languages and Literature and Göran Sonesson, Department of Semiotics, Lund
University, Sweden.
4. When a Word Makes a World. Coordinator: Tetyana Lunyova, English Philology
Department, Poltava State Pedagogical University, Ukraine.

Interfaces of Language and Vision
People use language to communicate with other people daily in natural environments. 
Recent psycholinguistic studies have done important work to explain how
attention to visual environment is linked to language in such situations.
Especially, studies with the visual world eye-tracking method have empirically
shown that allocation of attention to visual entities in the world has a tight
temporal coupling with cognitive processes underlying spoken language
comprehension and production. By studying a variety of different linguistic
structures these studies have tested and developed psycholinguistic theories and
models of language comprehension and production. 

The current theme session on Interfaces of Language and Vision is dedicated to
studies investigating how visual environment interacts with language
comprehension and production processes. The topics are as follows (but not
restricted to): 
-Visual environment and language comprehension 
-Visual environment and language production 
-Relationship between salience in language and salience in visual scenes 
-Visual environment and anticipation in language comprehension 
-Role of memory in the coordination of language and vision 
-Joint attention between speaker and listener in human-human interaction and
human-robot interaction 
-Language comprehension/production with and without visual world 
-Interfaces of language and vision in language acquisition and their
implications for acquisition theories 
-Modeling interfaces of language and vision 
Cognition and Second Language Use

In recent decades a vast amount of research has been done both within the broad
area of cognitive linguistics and cognitive studies generally, as well as within
the broad area of second language acquisition and use. The overlap between these
two areas, however, has remained relatively small. The aim of this theme session
is to bring together researchers who are working within a cognitive paradigm on
questions of L2 acquisition and use.

The most general issue in cognitive approaches to L2 use is perhaps the question
of cognitive and processing differences between L1 and L2 use. There are very
many more specific questions, such as the following:

-cognitive barriers to native-like proficiency in L2 users
-various cognitive stages in L2 attainment
-processing efficiency among L1 and L2 users
-L2 reading/writing/speaking/listening proficiencies 
-the critical period hypothesis transfer
-L2 influences on L1 processes (reverse transfer)
-cognitive aspects of language aptitude
-didactic/pedagogical approaches - what can cognitive linguistics offer to
L2-education? 

We would welcome all papers that address these and related questions within the
area of cognition and L2 use.

Language, consciousness and semiosis

By definition, language is the major object of study of linguistics, and
semiosis ("meaning making") of semiotics. No one has a similar monopoly on
consciousness, but until recently it was mostly philosophy that dared to deal
with this "dangerous topic", and, arguably with most insight, the tradition of
phenomenology, emanating from Husserl. However, in the past, few scholars have
ventured to trespass the borders of these three subjects, and thus to
investigate the relations between language, consciousness and semiosis in a
truly interdisciplinary fashion. 

But the times they are a'changing. Journals such as Cognitive Semiotics, Journal
of Consciousness Studies, and Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences have
recently published issues precisely encouraging such "trespassing". Established
semioticians such as Fredrik Stjernfeldt, Søren Brier and Göran Sonesson have
written extensively on language, consciousness and semiosis, combining insights
from the three disciplines. Linguists such as Len Talmy, Per-Åge Brandt, Esa
Itkonen and Jordan Zlatev have done likewise. Members of the interdisciplinary
"Distributed Language Group" (DLG) have done so too, though being more
influenced by Wittgenstein, Vygotsky and Maturana than phenomenology.
Phenomenologists "proper" nowadays seem less concerned with language per se, but
Shaun Gallagher, Søren Overgaard and Maxine Sheets-Johnstone have made valuable
contributions, especially with respect to the elucidation of a notion that is
crucial for cognitive linguistics: "embodiment".

In this theme session, we invite contributions (from these and related fields)
that explicitly deal with the relationships between language, consciousness and
semiosis. A key question is that of priority, in ontological, methodological and
empirical (e.g. in ontogeny and phylogeny) terms between language, consciousness
and semiosis (and particularly: signs). For example, Peircians often give
priority to signs with respect to both consciousness and language. Sonesson, on
the other hand, privileges consciousness within a framework of "phenomenological
semiotics". Zlatev argues similarly for "the dependence of language on
consciousness". Finally, DLG members like Cowley and Kravchenko argue for a
decisive role of "languaging", understood in broadly biosemiotic terms, for
consciousness. 

We look forward to open discussions on these issues, on the basis of
presentations using either stringent conceptual/semantic analysis, or empirical
investigations, and in the best case both.

When a Word Makes a World
The session will be devoted to examination of linguistic relativity as
(re)created in fiction.

When inventing peculiar worlds in their books, many writers, among them such
different authors as J.R.R. Tolkien, Anthony Burges, Will Self, created specific
languages for the inhabitants of these worlds to speak and think. The discussion
at the session is expected to touch on various aspects of fictitious linguistic
relativity analyzed within the framework of cognitive science, including the
following questions:

-- What cognitive need prompts authors to invented languages for fictitious
worlds or, alternatively, create fictitious worlds where invented languages can
be spoken?
-- What categorizations do these invented languages represent? How do these
categorizations contribute to ensuring the uniqueness and authenticity of the
fictitious worlds?
-- What are the relationships between an invented language and a real language/
real languages?
-- What cognitive difficulties may/ do readers encounter when interpreting
messages in invented languages?
-- What cognitive structures and mechanisms are employed by readers to
understand invented languages?
-- How are the conceptual and semantic gaps between invented languages and real
languages bridged?
-- What is the correlation between real linguistic relativity and fictitious
linguistic relativity?



	
-------------------------Message 2 ---------------------------------- 
Date: Tue, 21 Oct 2008 13:12:54
From: Anjum Saleemi [saleemi@ncnu.edu.tw]
Subject: Reshaping the Mould: Literature and Language Studies

E-mail this message to a friend:
http://linguistlist.org/issues/emailmessage/verification.cfm?iss=19-3198.html&submissionid=194207&topicid=3&msgnumber=2
 
	

Full Title: Reshaping the Mould: Literature and Language Studies 
Short Title: RMLLS 

Date: 19-Jan-2009 - 21-Jan-2009
Location: Lahore, Pakistan 
Contact Person: Anjum Saleemi
Meeting Email: confellgcu@hotmail.com & confellgcu@gcu.edu.pk
Web Site: http://www.gcu.edu.pk 

Linguistic Field(s): Ling & Literature 

Call Deadline: 29-Oct-2008 

Meeting Description:

The overarching theme of the conference is the triple nexus between the study of
English literature, the English language, and the scientific study of language
known as linguistics. 

Call for Papers

Reminder and Extension of Deadline: 29-Oct-2008

This is a call for abstracts for an international conference on literature and
language studies that the GC University, Lahore, Pakistan (www.gcu.edu.pk), is
planning to organize (pending approval of funding) in January 2009 in
collaboration with the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. The conference
proceedings will span three days, namely, 19-21 January.

The overarching theme of the conference is the triple nexus between the study of
English literature, of the English language, and the scientific study of
language known as linguistics, a nexus that exists as it does today in many
parts of the world in large measure due to historical convenience.  The
situation in general seems to be riddled with a number of paradoxes: for
instance, often the distinctions between (i) English literature and the
literature of non-English origins, i.e., literature in English and literature
accessed through translation into English, (ii) the study of English for the
purposes of attaining functional proficiency in the language, and (iii) the
scientific investigation of language as a universal human cognitive system, get
blurred in pursuit of what has been administratively the parent discipline in a
large number of postcolonial contexts, i.e., English literature or, more
generally speaking, English studies.  Not infrequently the ambiguity of this
situation makes people consider these other more or less related disciplines as
mere extensions of the study of English language and literature within which the
disciplines in question are perceived to coexist as a result of an unwritten
uneasy truce between them.

This conference aims to bring together researchers and writers who are keen to
discuss this state of affairs, not necessarily in a confrontational manner.  In
addition, those who do not intend to directly challenge the status quo, or
present alternatives to it, will also have an opportunity to present their
research on a substantial aspect of any of these three areas of investigation,
as one of the major aims of the conference is to enhance an understanding of
some significant academic issues regardless of the boundary disputes implied
earlier, thus accepting their overlapping coexistence as an unavoidable
practical reality which should not prevent people from moving on within the
peculiar situation they find themselves in respectively, a strategy which might
result in some of the demarcational faculty disputes simply being left behind,
or in their disappearance from the academic scene altogether without any
definitive resolution.  Thus, the conference is likely to envisage, indeed
encourage, a revisionist agenda, but not at the expense of the inherent value of
the research accomplished within the prevalent framework (such as it is!).

We invite abstracts (from literary scholars, linguists, language teachers, area
study specialists, etc., including graduate students) on the specific theme(s)
described above, but also on many other relevant themes, some of which are
listed below.  It goes without saying that the abstracts submitted need not to
be confined to the following list, which is not intended to be exhaustive.  The
conference presentations are likely to consist of sessions organized around
specific themes, and will in addition be interspersed with discussion sessions.
Each individual presentation will be expected to last 20 minutes (leaving aside
the keynote speakers), to be followed by a question-answer session of
10-minutes' duration.

1. Fundamental research and criticism; literary theory in general.
2. The humanizing role of literature in education.
3. The English language and its postcolonial discontents.
4. Literature and linguistics.
5. The significance of linguistics as a discipline.
6. The English language in South Asia.
7. The South Asian literature in English.
8. Educational implications of literature and linguistics.
9. Linguistics and language teaching.
10. Literature and language teaching.

Keynote Speakers: 
The following have accepted the invitation to be the keynote speakers:
Graeme Cane, Aga Khan University
Vivian Cook, University of Newcastle
Muhammed Hanif (author of A Case of Exploding Mangoes)
Jason Harding, University of Durham
Alamgir Hashmi, PIDE
Tariq Rahman, Quaid-e-Azam University
Rajendra Singh, University of Montreal
Shaista Sonnu Sirajuddin, Punjab University

Abstract Submission: Two copies of each abstract should be sent: one anonymous,
and the other with the name and the affiliation of the author(s).  These should
preferably be submitted through e-mail to the address specified below. Not
exceeding 500 words (excluding any references, data, tables, etc.), the
abstracts must be in the Word/A4 format, single-spaced, justified on both sides
with a 1½ inch margin on and the left and the right of the text and also at the
top and the bottom of a page.  They should be typed in 12-point Times New Roman,
with the title in bold 14-point of the same type of font.  Authors may submit at
most two abstracts, individually or as a joint author.  Likewise, no more than
two abstracts may be submitted by the same set of joint authors. Further, there
is a possibility that a selection of the papers presented will be submitted to a
reputable publisher as a volume to be published.

General Information: The delegates (with the exception of the keynote speakers)
will be expected to pay and arrange for their accommodation themselves. 
However, the organizers will do their best to help them locate appropriate
places.  Further detailed information regarding travel, accommodation and other
hospitality arrangements will be posted on the conference website in due course.
 It might as well be mentioned that the neo-Gothic GCU campus, the venue of the
conference, was built around 150 years ago, and is located near the heart of the
historic city of Lahore (that is, just outside the walled inner city).

Registration: The participants whose abstracts have been accepted must
pre-register for the conference at least four weeks in advance.  Other delegates
may register on-site.  The registration fee is US$ 20.00 for international
participants, and PakRs 300.00 for Pakistani participants.   This may be
transmitted to conference account by means of mode(s) of transfer that will soon
be specified on the conference website.

Important Dates and Addresses:
E-mail address for submission of abstracts and inquiries: confellgcu@gcu.edu.pk
and confellgcu@hotmail.com.
Note: Please send your abstracts to both the e-mail addresses specified above.

Deadline for Submission of Abstracts: October 29, 2008.
Notification of acceptance: November 15, 2008.

Organizing Committee:
Convener: Nosheen Khan
Chief Organizer: Anjum P. Saleemi (saleemi@gcu.edu.pk, anjum_saleemi@hotmail.com)
Organizer: Shahzeb Khan (shahzebkhan@gcu.edu.pk, shahzeb25@msn.com)
Members: Siddique Awan, Saira Fatima Dogar, Arooj Ehsan, Rida Iqtidar, Saima
Jabeen, Mahrukh Nishaat, Shafaat Yar Khan, Asma Zulfiqar

Other Contact Information:
Postal address: Literature and Language Studies Conference, Department of
English, GC University, Katchery Road, Lahore, Pakistan.
Telephone: 111-000-010 Exts. 348, 276, Mobile: 0322-4456299, Country Code: 92,
Area Code; (0)42.

Conference website: http://www.gcu.edu.pk/ELLGCU/Index.htm


 





-----------------------------------------------------------
LINGUIST List: Vol-19-3198	

	
